ques
A graphics application stores information about geometric shapes and frequently creates duplicate objects for editing operations. Explain the need for a copy constructor and analyze the problems that may arise if the default copy constructor is used in applications involving dynamic memory allocation. Develop a C++ program illustrating the use of a copy constructor.

answer
Copy Constructor in a Graphics Application
1. Introduction

A graphics application stores information about geometric shapes such as circles, rectangles, and triangles. During editing operations, duplicate objects are often created. A copy constructor is used to create a new object as an exact copy of an existing object.

2. What is a Copy Constructor?

Definition:

A copy constructor is a special constructor that initializes one object using another object of the same class.

Syntax:

ClassName(const ClassName &obj)
{
    // Copy data members
}
3. Need for a Copy Constructor
Creates a duplicate of an existing object.
Initializes a new object with the values of another object.
Avoids writing separate code to copy each data member.
Used when objects are passed or returned by value.
Ensures proper copying of dynamically allocated memory.
4. Default Copy Constructor

If the programmer does not define a copy constructor, the C++ compiler automatically provides a default copy constructor.

It performs a shallow copy, meaning it copies the values of data members, including memory addresses of pointers.

5. Problems with the Default Copy Constructor (Dynamic Memory)

When a class contains dynamic memory (using new), the default copy constructor can cause problems because it performs a shallow copy.

Problems
Shared Memory
Both objects point to the same memory location.
Data Modification Issues
Changing data through one object also affects the other object.
Double Deletion
When both objects are destroyed, they try to free the same memory, causing runtime errors.
Memory Corruption
Can lead to crashes or undefined behavior.

To avoid these issues, a user-defined copy constructor performs a deep copy, allocating separate memory for each object.